Steve's Stories
Steve's Story number three, Cardiff Carnival reaches out
Cardiff Carnival is always a highlight in the Cardiff cultural calendar
but its influence has spread and Carnival arts,
dance and music have helped animate many special events and parades in the
capital over the years. In March 1991
Lady Diana stood on the podium on the balcony
of St David's Hall in the Hayes and waved on Swickr Carnival's contribution
to the large scale National St David's Day Parade.
This included huge multi-coloured dancing leaf-shaped
sails, a Carnival design based on the leaf cutter ant
found in Trinidad. These towering costumes
were energetically danced in a long line and the impact of their
constantly swirling and diving choreography was clear to see on the
smiling faces of those who lined the route.
I remember that St David's Day Parade in particular because
as a parade organiser I know that one of the things that must be avoided
when finalising any parade line-up is sound clash.
Sound clash occurs when any two marching street bands
are placed too close together so their music interferes with
each other's playing. The more powerful group drowns out the quieter one
and it becomes very confusing for the accompanying Carnival dancers
as well as the musicians themselves. Now on this particular
parade Samba Galez, the Cardiff School of Samba, were performing
Samba rhythms played to a funky Brazilian swing beat
but the group were placed too close to a military drumming band
whose beat was intended to be the metronome for the steps of the
accompanying uniformed soldiers. In the ensuing
sound clash the funky swing of the Samba beat overcame
and infected the military drummers to such an extent that
the marching soldiers couldn't help but break step and began
bumping into each other. I can still remember the helpless
fury on the purple-faced Sergeant Major as the
domino effect brought on by Samba Galez wreaked havoc on his
military formation. Whilst the annual Cardiff Carnival
is the highlight of Swicker Carnival's calendar, the company has
successfully delivered a huge number of projects of
varying sizes across Cardiff and indeed across South Wales
over the past quarter century. Cardiff Carnival's influence
on special events in the city have ranged from lantern and fire spectaculars
on City Hall lawn to open-air carnival theatre
in the Roald Dahl Place in Cardiff Bay,
Cardiff costumes, music and flair have helped bring the New Year's Eve
family festival Kilenig alive and even accompanied the
progress of the Olympic Torch Relay through the capital.